
# Rest / Modal Buttons Change Commands

## deleteOnOpen on modalButton
There is a need to copy an existing payment: everything except the date. To do that we have added the `deleteOnOpen` option to modalButton.
This executes after the copy and will delete the date.

It can be used for any similar actions. It can delete one thing or several things
```typescript
   copy: {
      control: 'ModalButton', modal: EditPaymentsPD, mode: 'create', createEmpty: PaymentDD, focusOn: '~/onePayment',
      copy:         { from: '~/selectedPayment', 'to': '~/onePayment' } ,
      deleteOnOpen: '~/onePayment/forActionOn',
      //...
    },
```

## copyOnSuccess for rest
There is a need to have a RestButton that 'given a sort code returns bank details', and then we need to copy the bank 
details into the existing form. To support this we have added 'copyOnSuccess' to the RestButton. This will copy 
from the response that is returned to a named place.

```typescript
    search: { control: 'RestButton', restName: 'sortCodeLookup', action: 'get', validate: false,
      enabledBy: 'sortCodeValid',
      copyOnSuccess: { from: 'bankName', to: '~/tempListOfPayments/newBankDetails/bank' },
```


# Validation
It became obvious in the trouble shooting sessions that debugging guard buttons and validation was difficult. 
to fix these two issues we have two new `debug buttons`

## Guard Debug
Previously this just ensured that the values of the guards were in the console.log. This is still the case but as well
the guards are displayed on the main form. If they are boolean guards they are displayed in red or green.

## Validation Debug
In order to understand the current validation state this button opens an entry in the debug area. In it can be seen
* All the inputs and whether they are valid
* All the selects and whether they are valid
* All the radio buttons and whether they are valid


# Layout
improved error reporting on layout

# New Properties on existing components

## table scrollAfter
```typescript
export const SummaryOfPaymentsTableDD: ExampleRepeatingD = {
  name: "SummaryOfPaymentsTable",
  description: "",
  dataDD: SummaryOfPaymentsLineDD,
  display: TableCD,
  sampleCount: 10,
  displayParams: {
    order: [ 'nameOfPayee', 'currency', 'sterlingAmount', 'currencyAmount', 'dateCreated', 'forActionOn', 'status' ],
    scrollAfter: '200px',
  },
  paged: false
}
```
## ManyLineStringDD scrollAfter
```typescript
  structure: {
    someField: { dataDD: ManyLineStringDD, sample: [ 'first Line!\nAnd here is a second line' ], displayParams:{scrollAfter: '300px'} },
```

# Guards

## added regex guard
```typescript
guards: {
  canPrint: { condition: 'equals', value: false, path: '~/tempListOfPayments/alreadyPrinted' },
  sortCodeValid:{condition: 'regex', regex: /^[0-9]{2}[-][0-9]{2}[-][0-9]{2}$/, path: '~/tempListOfPayments/newBankDetails/sortCode' }
}
```

# New Components

## LabelAndDropDownFromDataCD
This uses fetched data from the api. This example shows how we use it fetch a list of currencies. The `dataId` and
the `dataField` have to exist in the object pointed to by `data`
```typescript
export const CurrencyEnum: StringPrimitiveDD = {
  ...stringPrimDD,
  name: 'CurrencyEnum',
  description: "Euros or GBP",
  display: LabelAndDropDownFromDataCD,
  displayParams: { data: '~/currency', dataId: 'id', dataField: 'currency', pleaseSelect: 'Please select'  },
}
```
## DropDownWithVaryingContentProps
On one of the new forms we have a need to do have two drop downs. The first drop down affects the values displayed in the second.

```typescript
//In the dataD...
structure: {
  message1: { dataDD: StringDD, sample: [ 'Greetings  !' ] },
  message2: { dataDD: ManyLineStringDD, sample: [ ' message !\nAnd here is a second line' ], displayParams:{scrollAfter: '300px'} },
  dropdown1: { dataDD: YesNoDD },
  dropdown2: {
    dataDD: {
    ...StringDD, display: LabelAndDropDownWithVaryingContentCD, displayParams: {
        selector: '~/fromApi/dropdown1',
          pleaseSelect: "please select",
          enums: {
          N: { no1: 'No1', no2: 'no2' },
          Y: { yes1: 'Yes1', yes22: 'yes2' },
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

# Accessibility
Most of the components have been adjusted in small ways to make them more accessibility friendly. Currently the automated accessibility tool reports zero defects 
for many pages except for radio buttons and an image which we will fix next week

When we started we had many pages with 40 issues or more, many of them critical

The impact on you should be zero.

## Future work on accessibility
* We are still working on how to report errors better
* We need to work out how to get the messages at the top in a more accessiblity friendly way
* We will go back to an accessibility expert and say 'what's the next step'

# Minor
* PostiveMoneyDD
* DateDDMMYYY_DD - a date with dd/MM/yyyy as the date format.
* read only strings
* added step to validation of numbers


# Bug fixes:
* fixed issue with joiner on copyJustSTrings
* select validation

# Redux
We are still trying to get the Redux working in the main application. We have it working in an adhoc way (lots of manual editing) 
and are trying to make it repeatable and automated.
* The Fetches and Rests are working
* The controls can be edited
* The display is themed (although will need fine grain checking)


# Refactors 

# Rest Button / Modal Button refactor
We are adding a lot of 'do thing' commands to modal and rest buttons
* deleteOnSuccess
* empty
* emptyIfUndefined
* copy
* copyJustStrings
* ....
* messageOnSuccess

I've refactored how these are done, and made it much easier to add new ones. The new mechanism is available for those that want to experiment with it
but it is not yet officially released: it may have changes. In addition I am rewriting how the 'initial' state for the page, is resolved,
and 'what happens when the age closes' to all use the same mechanism. After a couple of weeks of experimentation I'll roll it out

There is no impact on existing code: nothing should be impacted.... But I could have made a mistake ... (tests are only a strong proof of a weak theorum)
so if there is 'wierd' behavior in the rest buttons or modal buttons let me know.

The new mechanism allows us fine grained control of when things happen and is much simpler:

## In RestButton
(Remember this is still experimental)
```typescript
save: {
  control: 'RestButton', restName: 'address', action: 'createWithoutFetch', validate: true, messageOnSuccess: 'Saved',
    onSuccess: [
    { command: 'copyResult', from: '', to: '~/target' },
    { command: 'set', path: '~/target/index' , value: '1'},
    { command: 'delete', path: '~/target/date' },
    { command: 'message', msg: 'someMessage' },
  ]
}
```

## In ModalButton
(Remember this is still experimental)

```typescript
    address: {
      control: 'ModalButton', modal: AddressModalPage,
      mode: 'edit',
      change: [    
        { command: 'copy', from: 'someSource', to: '~/target' },
        { command: 'set', path: '~/target/index' , value: '1'},
        { command: 'delete', path: '~/target/date' },
        { command: 'message', msg: 'someMessage' }],
```
I will be adding `onClose` to handle all the `copyOnClose` time behavior. And a similar thing with the restOnCommit which needs the same controls as the rest

# Migration Guide

I don't believe there should be any issues, but please check!

## Improving Debug
If you have debug buttons marked `undefined xxx` then you can set the initial value in your `focuson.config.ts`. This is purely aesthetic
```typescript
  debug: { fetcherDebug: false, guardDebug: false, restDebug: false, selectedPageDebug: false,
           loadTreeDebug: false, showTracing: false,
            recordTrace: true, tagFetcherDebug: false,validityDebug: false}

```

#Roadmap

## Integration
Redux integration

## Dates
The date picker is our most complex component. We will be trying to simplify and improve it.

## Validation
We want all the components to have the same validation mechanisms

## Accessibility

