# guardFns

```typescript
    guards: {
      balanceZero: { condition: 'fn', name: 'balanceZero', path: "~/some/data" }
    },
```
This is in a file somewhere. Let's call it 'guardFns.ts'
```typescript
import { LensState } from "@focuson/state";

export interface HasValue{
  value: number
}
export function balanceZero<S,V extends HasValue, C>(s: LensState<S,V[], C>): boolean{
  const data = s.optJsonOr([])
  const balance = data.reduce((acc, v)=> acc + v.value, 0)
  return balance === 0
}
```
We need to copy it. Modify your generation code
```typescript
fse.copySync ( './src/guardFns.ts', tsRoot + "/src/guardFns.ts" )
```
And then tell the system it exists

```typescript

generate ( logLevel, directorySpec, devAppConfig, {
    ...params,
    guardFnsFile: '../guardFns',  // <----------------- otherwise the imports won't work
    controllerAnnotations: [ "@CrossOrigin()" ],
```

# Improved the resiliance of the guards
Previously the guards 'assumed' that the data returned from the backend was of the correct type. Now many of them are 
much more resiliant. For example many of them would have crashed if `null` was returned from the backend (like the `regex` condition)
and now they treat that as the empty string.


# Modified where the request.controllers go
The file structure in java has changed quite noticable, especially the `request.controllers`. These are now grouped by page.

# LabelAndFixedNumber
Has an optional className now. Mostly this is used in custom components 


# Support for functions that return pageDs
We have the case where we need X pages that are almost the same. The only difference is the backend, and perhaps some labels on the screen. For example
the authoriseCharges page has two backends that differ only very slightly

## Steps to do this
* Create an customisation interface that captures the differences
* Change the dataD to functions that are given the customisation interface and return a DataD. Please note that these should be memoised. 
* Change the restD to functions that are given the customisation interface return a RestD. These don't need to be momoised (but it's not an error if you do)
* Change the pageD to functions that are given the customisation interface returning a PageD. These don't need to be momoised (but it's not an error if you do)
* 'use' the customisation interface. 
  * The urls must be different
  * The pagename of the main page needs to be different
  * We need to give the restDs a namePrefix
  * We probably need different tables
  * We may want different labels
* Call the pageD function in the list of generated pages

# CommandButton now has validate option
Like the rest button and the modal buttons.

# Showing the 'why' a button cannot be pressed
In general there are three reasons a button might not be pressable:
* There are validation issues, and the button has validation `true`
* There are `enabledBy` guard conditions
* The button is marked readonly for some other reason (the list previous and next buttons have `build in` guards)
All but the first now 'show' when you hover over the disabled button. The validations do with a 'hidden' feature, but
they cause issues in the target environment, although they work well in my development environment. In `debug` there is
a button `useRefs` and if you click it the validation works too

This is a partially implemented features: we need to sort out the CSS still, and we need to find out why the validation
causes issues in the target environment

# Resolvers
Combination of a bug and a new feature
* Bug: We added the output parameters of list mutations (sql/storedproc etc) when the result is an object, and those variables don't exist
* Feature: We want to be able to return the result of a manual code block as the result of a feature. So we just create an output variable with the resolvername

# Modal windows can have restOnOpen
No changes to existing code. Previously only MainPages could have a 'restOnOpen'.

# Changes to guards
In the past we had code that looked like this. `guard: { currencyZero: ['true'] }`. This was never clear in what it meant anyway: it worked 'by coincidence'
and doesn't work with the new way of reporting what is wrong with fields.  

THIS IS A BREAKING CHANGE. I appologise for it... It's not possible to handle 'why is this broken' and leave this as it is.

You need to change to  `guard: { currencyZero: true] }`

The easiest way to do this is to search for `["true"]` and `['true']`. 
```typescript
export const amountDD: ExampleDataD = {
  name: 'Amount',
  description: '',
  layout: { component: ConfirmChangesToAnyCD, displayParams: { confirm: { messageText: 'Are you sure you want:' }, layoutDetails: '[[1,1,1], [1]]' } },
  guards: {
    sterlingZero: { condition: 'equals', path: 'sterlingAmount', value: 0 },
    currencyZero: { condition: 'equals', path: 'currencyAmount', value: 0 }
  },
  structure: {
    // These two guards are in the old format and need to be changed 
    sterlingAmount: { dataDD: MoneyDD, guard: { currencyZero: ['true'] }, sample: [ 123, 2345, 5654 ], displayParams: { min: 0.01, step: 0.01 } },
    currencyAmount: { dataDD: MoneyDD, guard: { sterlingZero: ['true'] }, sample: [ 222, 333, 444 ], displayParams: { min: 0.01, step: 0.01 } },
  }
}
```

# New guard arraylength>0

# ConfirmChangesToAnyCD
This is layout that will add an onblur listener to every input. Should any onblur occur, and the inputs are all valid (meet the html `required`, `min` etc) then
a popup will be shown asking the user to confirm they are happy with the values. This is for high value things like 'amount of money in a payment' where
we can have an amount and an amount in words, and we really want the user to be sure.

The `confirm` is the same format as for the modal pages confirm, so you can specify things like a title and a class, and if you really want add your own
The `layoutDetails` are those expected in the `<Layout>` component and are required.

Note that it checks everything in the current object, so you need to structure the data this way. Also note that currently it doesn't check dropdowns, just inputs.

```typescript
export const amountDD: ExampleDataD = {
  name: 'Amount',
  description: '',
  layout: { component: ConfirmChangesToAnyCD, displayParams: { confirm: { messageText: 'Are you sure you want:' }, layoutDetails: '[[1,1,1], [1]]' } },
  guards: {
    sterlingZero: { condition: 'equals', path: 'sterlingAmount', value: 0 },
    currencyZero: { condition: 'equals', path: 'currencyAmount', value: 0 }
  },
  structure: {
    currency: { dataDD: CurrencyEnum },
    sterlingAmount: { dataDD: MoneyDD, guard: { currencyZero: true }, sample: [ 123, 2345, 5654 ], displayParams: { min: 0.01, step: 0.01 } },
    currencyAmount: { dataDD: MoneyDD, guard: { sterlingZero: true }, sample: [ 222, 333, 444 ], displayParams: { min: 0.01, step: 0.01 } },
    amountInWords: { dataDD: StringDD, sample: [ 'one hundred', 'two hundred', 'three hundred' ] },
  }
}
```

# Migration guide

## General
You will need to delete your generated source code. Especially the java: the file layout of request controllers and the wiring has changed a lot
* The request controllers are in different packages
* There is now a 'wiring' package
* Each page has its own graphql

## Sidecars
If you have 'sidecar-ed' your mvn.pom, or the rest controllers, or the graphql schema  you will get issues. This is because sidecars are only 
supposed to be used for a short time until we have solved the real problem. A sidecar makes it extremely hard to handle change and should
rarely be used.

## Graph.ql in the mvn.pom

Lots of people have their own copy of mvn.pom. This is quite likely to give an issue: complaining that there is more than one graphql.

To fix this *remove* the following
```xml
   <!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.graphql-java/graphql-java-spring-boot-starter-webmvc -->
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.graphql-java</groupId>
            <artifactId>graphql-java-spring-boot-starter-webmvc</artifactId>
            <version>${graphql-springboot.starter.version}</version>
        </dependency>
```

## Sort out your guards
In the past we had code that looked like this. `guard: { currencyZero: ['true'] }`. 
You need to change to  `guard: { currencyZero: true] }`

This is literally only for the boolean 'true'. If you are looking for a value like 'Y' or 'N' leave it alone.