
# Commands

## Fetcher commands
When we have fetched data using a fetcher we might want to 'do something else'. One example we need for
optimistic locking is to copy the data to a 'original data place'. Other examples might be a message, or to copy just 
a part of the data

```typescript
 rest: {
    authorisedCharges: {
      rest: AuthorisedChargesRD, targetFromPath: '~/authorisedCharges/fromApi/editingData', fetcher: true,
      postFetchCommands: [
        { command: 'message', msg: 'loading the authorised charges' },
        { command: 'copyResult', from: '', to: '~/authorisedCharges/fromApi/originalData' }
      ]
    }
}
```

## Message Commands can now have data in them
When we have a message, we can include data in the message. This uses the same {} language as usual
```typescript
singleByResolver: { control: 'RestButton', restName: 'singleByResolver', result: 'nothing', action: 'get', 
                  on404: { command: 'message', msg: 'We just processed id {/CommonIds/accountId}' } },
```

## Commands in general

This is just a review: we have a lot of places now that can take commands
* Modal Buttons
     * When we open the modal window
     * When we close the modal window
     * When we complete the rest action successfully
     * When we have a 404 if there is a rest action
* Rest buttons
    * When we complete the rest action successfully
    * When we have a 404 if there is a rest action
* Most inputs 
    * When the data changes we can execute an action: particularly useful with drop downs
* When we show the page the first time
* Fetchers
    * When the fetcher has fetched the data we can execute a message

It is likely we will more. These commands look like this
* {command: 'set', path: '~/some/path', value: 'theValueCanBeAnObjectOrAvalue'}
* {command: 'delete', path: '~/some/path'}
* {command: 'message', msg: 'some message {~/path to some data}'}
* {command: 'copy', from: '~/somewhere', to: `~/somewhere/else'}

In rest commands we have the following which copies from the data that has just been fetched
* {command: 'copyResult', from: 'somewhere', to: `~/somewhere/else'}. 

In initialValue we have the following which forces a reload of all the fetchers
* {command: 'deletePageTags'}. 

We will be adding more places and more commands. It's just good to realise that they exist and how they work
They are gradually replacing the other more adhoc ways of doing this kind of thing

# Support for multiple teams in the final application
We want to support the idea that each teams code base is totally separate. This means that 
as we develop in isolation and then integrate, nothing in our code base can damage someone else's

This is obviously not doable for globally unique things such as URLs, but we have tried to make it true for everything else

## There is a team property in the appConfig
```typescript
generate ( logLevel, directorySpec, devAppConfig, {
    ...params,
    ...,
    teamName: 'someTeamName'
  },
  javaOutputRoot, tsRoot, AllGuardCreator, makeButtons () ) ( generatedPages )
```

## The redux code is now team specific

This has no impact on most people, it just allows us to have the integration work easier
```typescript

```

# Backend

## Boolean patterns for yes/no
If we have a boolean in the JSON then it has the JavaType Boolean. And it can only hold the values `true` or `false`.
You are probably aware that relational databases usually do not support booleans. Instead we use either strings (Y / N) or
Integers (0 /1 ). We need to map from the `true` / `false` to the appropriate value in the database.

We do this in the same fashion as the date formats: 

```typescript
{ type: 'output', javaType: 'Boolean', name, rsName: name, format: { type: "Boolean", true: 'Y', false: 'N' } }
```
# Handling funny date issues in oracle. 1/3/2013 should work.
Our initial attempt to handle dates in oracle was not very successful as 1/3/2013 is not the same as 01/03/2013.
We have made it so that the date patterns now support this. There is no change to the usage, just the implementation
```typescript
  actions: [ 'get', 'update' ],
  tables: {
    entity: { table: authorisedChargesTableDD, alias: 'A', type: 'Main' },
    where: [ { table: authorisedChargesTableDD, alias: "A", field: 'date', comparator: 'sameday', paramName: 'date', pattern: 'dd/MM/yyyy' } ]
  }
```

We now generate this code... and the stringToDateString parses to a date and then back to a string again in the correct format
```java
      statement.setString(1,DateFormatter.stringToDateString("dd/MM/yyyy",date));
```

# Sql on multiple lines
In places where we specified sql the multiple lines were not reflected in the generated code making it hard to read. That is now changed.
There is no change in usage


## new comparator for same day for dates
When we are doing the backend work and we want to say 'get me the data for a particular date', we hit the problem
that dates are always difficult in a database. In the database the date is stored as a number of milliseconds since the
epoch. We want to say 'any time on a specific date'.

We can now use this 'comparator': 

```typescript
  actions: [ 'get', 'update' ],
  tables: {
    entity: { table: authorisedChargesTableDD, alias: 'A', type: 'Main' },
    where: [ { table: authorisedChargesTableDD, alias: "A", field: 'date', comparator: 'sameday', paramName: 'date', pattern: 'dd/MM/yyyy' } ]
  }
```

# debug level
We can now change the autogenerated debugs level. At the moment only globally. Options are 'debug', 'info' and 'none'

Please note that there is a known issue around debugging levels where sometimes an extra comma is created. Setting the 
debugLevel to 'none' is a workaround

```typescript
generate ( logLevel, directorySpec, devAppConfig, {
    ...params,
    endpointImports: [],
    focusOnVersion,
    thePackage: 'somepackage.somepostfix.another',
    debugLevel: 'info'
  },
  javaOutputRoot, tsRoot, AllGuardCreator, makeButtons () ) ( generatedPages, generatedRefs )
```


# Initial values
When a page is displayed we can specify what is moved into the domain. We normally use one of the following

```typescript
  initialValue: 'empty',
```
```typescript
  initialValue: undefined,
```
or
```typescript
  initialValue: {
    authorisedCharges: { date: '2020/01/01' }
  },
```

We decided to give a lot more control over what happens. To do that we allow 'commands' to be executed when the page is 
displayed the first time. 

Example of usage
```typescript
initialValue: [ 'empty', { command: 'copy', from: '/CommonIds/today', to: '~/authorisedCharges/date' } ],
```

*NOTE: THIS IS A BREAKING CHANGE IF YOU SPECIFIED ANYTHING OTHER THAN undefined or 'empty'. See migration guide*

# Initial value can take {command: 'deletePageTags'}
This is to deal with awkward caching issues. If needed we'll add it to other commands, but I would prefer not to as it's very brutal! It 
forces a reload of all the fetchers associated with that page

```typescript
initialValue: [ 'empty', { command: 'deletePageTags'} ],
```

# Wizard support
```typescript
    next: { control: 'ModalButton', modal: wizard4, mode: 'view', focusOn: '~/nothing' , pageOp: 'replace'},
```
We have a new require to support the idea of a popup replacing an existing popup instead of popping on top of it. 


# Multiple in mutation/resolver guards

When we are working with mutations or resolvers we need to sometimes execute more than one statement when we 'match a guard' in a case statement.
We have added the `type: 'multiple'` to support this

```typescript
{
  guard: [],
    type:'multiple', mutations:[
    { type: 'sql', schema: onlySchema, sql: 'do some sql', params: [ 'accountId', ] },
    { type: 'sql', schema: onlySchema, sql: 'do some more sql', params: [ 'accountId', ] },
    { type: 'sql', schema: onlySchema, sql: 'do even more sql', params: [ 'accountId', ] },
    { type: 'message', message: 'somemessage' } ]
}
```

# Work in progress

# Datepicker
I hoped to have the datepicker resolved, but a number of factors prevented it
* A lot more requests for new features than expected
* The loss of team members
* Personal issues

The outstanding issue is 'how do we get the reference data' and that is well underway: it just needs the polish to be releasable (next item)

## Initial API values/reference values
We want to be able to set up 'reference data'. Such as 'today', 'a list of holidays', 'list of brands', 'exchange rates'. We
want these to be shared across multiple pages.

This story is well underway (front and backend code generated. We want to be able to specify the staleness of data).
For now we are using an 'initialPage' as a work around.

## Validation
We did not advance this story any further this week

# Breaking Changes
There is only one known breaking change. That is if you manually set the initialValue to an object. That is no longer supported. 
We replace that with a set command like this:

Change
```typescript
  initialValue: {
    authorisedCharges: { date: '2020/01/01' }
  },
```
to  
```typescript
initialValue: { command: 'set', path: '~/authorisedCharges/date', value: '2020/01/01' },
```

# Known issues
Please note that there is a known issue around debugging levels where sometimes an extra comma is created. Setting the
debugLevel to 'none' is a workaround. 

When we fix this we will update the weekly version number
